# User-defined functions

## will learn
- Define functions without parameters
- Define functions with one parameter
- Define functions that return a value
- __Later__: multiple arguments, mutiple return values

def function(parameter):  __(function header)__   
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; new = parameter with function  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; print(new)  
__(function body)__

def function(parameter):  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; new = parameter with function  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; return(new)

__define a function__ = write parameter in the function header  
__call a function__ = pass arguments into the function  

### Difference between Print and Return

__Return:__ return from a function give the line of code that called the function result.  
Can think of a function as taking input through its argument and returring through return.  

__Print:__ unrelated to above and only deal with printing output to the terminal. (print = NoneType)


### Docstrings
- docstring describe what your function does
- serve as documentation for yoru function
- palce right under the function header
- use triple double quotes __"""docstring"""__

# Multiple parameters and return values


### __Tuple:__ Tuple is ordered and unchangeable
NOTE:
- lazy way to write is without (  )  
- only one item must have comma ,

<br>

### Unpack Tuple  
num = 2, 4, 6  

a, b, c = num    

a = 2  
b = 4    
c = 6

# Bring it all together

### Component  
Function header and Function body   

__Header__  
Begin with def, function name   
and parameter in parentheses and a colon.  

__"""DocString"""__

__Body__   
Performs the computation that the function does.  
Body close with return.

### Next Chapter
- Functions with default arguments
- Functions that accept an arbitrary number of parameters
- Nested functions
- Error-handling within functions
- MORE function use in data science


## Exercise:  
### __count the language used in dataset.__


<br>
import pandas as pd

df = pd.read_csv('tweets.csv')

#### Initialize an empty dictionary: langs_count
langs_count = {}

#### Extract column from DataFrame: col
col = df['lang']

#### Iterate over lang column in DataFrame
 for entry in col:

    # If the language is in langs_count, add 1
    if entry in langs_count:
        langs_count[entry] += 1
    # Else add the language to langs_count, set the value to 1
    else:
        langs_count[entry] = 1


NOTE: iterate over the DataFrame Dictionary

for i in data, i means keys and value.  
use data['i'] to specifiy the key.  
data[i] += 1 will add 1 to the value

#### Write a function to count occurrence in specific column in DataFrame

def count_occ(data, column):  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; col = data[column]  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; result = { }  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; for i in col:  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; if i in result.keys():  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; col[i] += 1  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;else result[i] = 1   
(add new __i__ )  
return result.